# Paryass
An android application "PRAYAS" that aims to aid economically weaker section of students that cannot afford the high expenses of books required for the preparation of various competetive examinations like NEET, JEE, GATE etc by providing them books for free or at minimal expenses and also to give opportunity to visually impaired people to learn like everyone else. The android application is a portal that connects people interested in buying, selling and donating their books that are of no use to them. Also, this android application brings people interested in similar fields closer and lets them exchange ideas. The app will contain two sections one for user and another for the admin panel. It features sign up with Google. It consists of four panels: Buy, Sell, Read and Discuss. In the Buy panel one can search the book and get access to the sellers of that book with necessary information. Also he can apply different filters to the search results (sort according to price range, distance of seller from his location, date published etc or change the view type of results); he can rate and add reviews for items and save items for later; he would receive notifications for updates about the saved items. The buyer can have a private chat with seller and can have the necessary discussion. The necessary maps and location shall be provided so that the buyer can reach the seller. In Sell section one can upload the photo of cover page along with name and other details. In the Read section the user can upload or download the pdf of book for free. There shall be provision to read any pdf as an audiobook  here (very helpful for visually impaired especially). In the Discuss section, there shall be category wise group chat in which users can exchange ideas and other resources. The application admin shall have full permission on chat rooms and online resources and shall monitor the misuse of app. The admin also has the rights to permanently suspend an account. The softwares used for implementing: Android Studio(using java), firebase(as a database)
